[Whisper fine-tuning sprint] README updates + organisation (#37)
huggingface/community-events: whisper-fine-tuning-sprint/README.md

# Whisper fine-tuning sprint 🤗

Welcome to the Whisper fine-tuning sprint 🎙️ !

> The goal of this event is to build **robust**, **real-world** speech recognition (ASR) systems in as many languages as possible 🌏🌍🌎.

Reviewer: Maybe we can be a bit more specific here? i.e. relate to Whisper and achieving SoTA 70+ langs?

> If necessary and available, free access to a V100s 32 GB GPU will kindly be provided by the [PUT CLOUD PROVIDER HERE](https://PUTCLOUDPROVIDERHERE.COM) 🚀.

Reviewer: Fingers crossed 🤞

Reviewer 2: To unblock this PR, maybe just say this  

```suggestion
Free compute resources will be provided for those that cannot train models with their compute resources.  🚀.
```
(or something along those lines)

# Whisper fine-tuning sprint 🤗

> Welcome to the Whisper fine-tuning sprint 🎙️ !

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Welcome to the Whisper fine-tuning sprint 🎙️!
```

The goal of this event is to build **robust**, **real-world** speech recognition (ASR) systems in as many languages as possible 🌏🌍🌎.
If necessary and available, free access to a V100s 32 GB GPU will kindly be provided by the [PUT CLOUD PROVIDER HERE](https://PUTCLOUDPROVIDERHERE.COM) 🚀.
This document summarizes all the relevant information required for the speech community event 📋.

> To sign-up, please see [this forum post](https://LINK_ACTUAL_FORUM) 🤗. Please make sure to:

Reviewer 2: I don't think the forum post should be required for people here. Going through this document should be everything they need, otherwise, we'll lose people jumping from one link to another. This page has everything important I think

- Read it in detail

> - Fill the [google form](https://forms.gle/F2bpouvhDpKKisM39)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fill the [Google form](https://forms.gle/F2bpouvhDpKKisM39)
```

> - Join the [Hugging Face Discord server](https://hf.co/join/discord) and make sure you have access to the #events channel.

Reviewer 2: How? They need to go to the role-assignments channel and accept audio

> [comment]: # TODO: VB - create a post on the forum and link it above. Update the URL to cloud provider when decided.

Reviewer 2: To update before merge

(as mentioned above, I don't think the forum post is a requisite for this)

## Table of Contents

- [TLDR;](#tldr)
- [Important dates](#important-dates)
- [How to install pytorch, transformers, datasets](#how-to-install-relevant-libraries)
- [Data and Preprocessing](#data-and-preprocessing)

> - [How to fine-tune an acoustic model](#how-to-finetune-an-acoustic-model)

Reviewer: Would collapse this down to 'How to fine-tune a Whisper model'

> - [How to fine-tune with OVH could](#how-to-finetune-with-ovh-cloud)

Reviewer 2: Maybe let's remove this section for now, it could say Compute Resources with a big TODO

- [How to combine n-gram language models with acoustic model](#how-to-combine-n-gram-with-acoustic-model)
- [Evaluation](#evaluation)
- [Prizes](#prizes)
- [Communication and Problems](#communication-and-problems)
- [Talks](#talks)
- [General Tips & Tricks](#general-tips-and-tricks)

> ## TLDR

Reviewer: Consistent with the Table of Contents
```suggestion
## TLDR;
```

Reviewer 2: Then the link will also need to be updated just in case!

> ## TLDR

Reviewer 2: This is a very large TL;DR section, maybe let's do an actual TL;DR with a 3-4 sentences description of the event and then this section could be named Intro or Overview?

> Participants are encouraged to leverage pre-trained speech recognition checkpoints,

Reviewer: This is a bit different to the robust speech event where the theme was a more broad (take any ASR model and fine-tune).

I would be more direct here in explaining how the event is going to work. I would state that participants are going use the pre-trained Whisper checkpoints (link to checkpoints) and fine-tune... 

-> want to make very clear how the event is set-up

> preferably [openai/whisper-large](https://huggingface.co/openai/whisper-large), 

Reviewer: Maybe copy and past the table from the blog with checkpoints and params? https://huggingface.co/blog/fine-tune-whisper#introduction

Also probably medium is going to be the largest we can feasibly train on an A100 -> this is fine as medium performs very similarly to large on most languages

We can train large but it'll be very slow (high number of gradient accumulation steps) -> I think we're better off encouraging the smaller checkpoints (small and medium) for more training steps

to train a speech recognition system in a language of their choice.

Speech recognition systems should be trained using **PyTorch**, **🤗 Transformers**, and, **🤗 Datasets**.
For more information on how to install the above libraries, please read through 
[How to install pytorch, transformers, datasets](#how-to-install-relevant-libraries).

Participants can make use of whatever data they think is useful to build a 

> speech recognition system for **real-world** audio data - 

Reviewer: I think the notion of 'real-world' audio data is pretty specific to the robust speech challenge! Ours is going to be more similar in theme to https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/main/examples/research_projects/wav2vec2/FINE_TUNE_XLSR_WAV2VEC2.md#fine-tuning-week-of-xlsr-wav2vec2-on-60-languages-
i.e. more focussed on common voice

**except** the Common Voice `"test"` split of their chosen language.
The section [Data and preprocessing](#data-and-preprocessing) explains 
in more detail what audio data can be used, how to find suitable audio data, and 
how the audio data can be processed.

For training, it is recommended to use the [official training script](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/main/examples/pytorch/speech-recognition/run_speech_recognition_seq2seq.py) or a modification thereof. A step-by-step guide on how to fine-tune 

> an acoustic model for a speech recognition system can be found under [How to fine-tune an acoustic model](#how-to-finetune-an-acoustic-model).

Reviewer: Swap all of the 'acoustic' for 'whisper'

If possible it is encouraged to fine-tune the acoustic models on local GPU machines, but 
if those are not available, the CLOUD_PROVIDER could team kindly provides a limited 
number of GPUs for the event. Simply fill out [this google form](https://forms.gle/F2bpouvhDpKKisM39) to get access to a GPU.

> [comment]: # For more information on how to train an acoustic model on one of OVH's GPU - see [How to fine-tune a speech recognition model with OVHcould](#how-to-fine-tune-with-ovh-cloud).

Reviewer 2: Please remove references to OVH

During the event, the speech recognition system will be evaluated on both the Common Voice `"test"` split 

> of the participants' chosen language as well as the *real-world* `"dev"` data provided by 

Reviewer: Real-world dev was something specific to robust speech. I don't think this was discussed for Whisper?

the Hugging Face team. 

> At the end of the whisper fine-tuning sprint, the speech recognition system will also be evaluated on the

Reviewer 2: Please consistently capitalize Whisper :)

*real-world* `"test"` data provided by the Hugging Face team. Each participant should add an 

> `eval.py` script to her/his model repository in a specific format that lets one easily 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`eval.py` script to their model repository in a specific format that lets one easily 
```

At the end of the event, the best performing speech recognition system 
will receive a prize 🏆 - more information regarding the prizes can be found under [Prizes](#prizes).

We believe that framing the event as a competition is more fun, but at the core, the event is about
creating speech recognition systems in as many languages as possible as a community.
This can be achieved by working together, helping each other to solve bugs, share important findings, etc...🤗

**Note**:
Please, read through the section on [Communication & Problems](#communication-and-problems) to make sure you 
know how to ask for help, etc...
All important announcements will be made on discord. Please make sure that 
you've joined [this discord channel](https://hf.co/join/discord)

Also, please make sure that you have been added to the [Speech Event Organization](https://CREATE_AN_ORGANISATION_ON_HUB). 
You should have received an invite by email. If you didn't receive an invite, please contact the organizers, *e.g.* Sanchit or VB directly on discord.

[comment]: # VB: create an organisation on the hub.

## Important dates

> ![timeline](https://github.com/patrickvonplaten/scientific_images/raw/master/Robush%20Speech%20Challenge.png)

Reviewer 2: To update

[comment]: # VB - Create an infographic for the timeline.

## Data and preprocessing

In this section, we will quickly go over how to find suitable training data and 
how to preprocess it.

> To begin with, **all data except Common Voice's `"test"` data can be used as training data.**

Reviewer: We could also add a hyperlink to Common Voice on the Hub

The exception includes all Common Voice versions as the test data split of later Common Voice versions often

> overlaps with the one of previous versions, *e.g.* the test data of Common Voice 7 in English is 

Reviewer: I would compare Common Voice 11 with Common Voice 10 rather than 7 with 6

to a big part identical to the test data of Common Voice 6 in English:

```python

> load_dataset("mozilla-foundation/common_voice_11_0", "en", split="test") 

Reviewer 2: I think doing this requires previously going to the Hub and accepting the gate, so we should document that

```

includes more or less the same data as

```python
load_dataset("mozilla-foundation/common_voice_10_0", "en", split="test") 
```

However, we strongly encourage participants to make use of Common Voice's other splits, *e.g.* `"train"` and `"validation"`.
For most languages, the Common Voice dataset offers already a decent amount of training data. It is usually 
always advantageous to collect additional data. To do so, the participants are in a first step encouraged to search the
Hugging Face Hub for additional audio data, for example by selecting the category 

> ["speech-processing"](https://huggingface.co/datasets?task_categories=task_categories:speech-processing&sort=downloads).

Reviewer 2: https://huggingface.co/datasets?task_categories=task_categories:automatic-speech-recognition is better :) 

```suggestion
["automatic-speech-recognition"](https://huggingface.co/datasets?task_categories=task_categories:automatic-speech-recognition).
```

All datasets that are available on the Hub can be downloaded via the 🤗 Datasets library in the same way Common Voice is downloaded.
If one wants to combine multiple datasets for training, it might make sense to take a look at 

> the [`interleave_datasets`](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/package_reference/main_classes.html?highlight=interleave#datasets.interleave_datasets) function.

Reviewer: We can also try and provide an example code snippet here!

If you're unfamiliar with Python virtual environments, check out the [user guide](https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/). Create a virtual environment with the version of Python you're going
to use and activate it.

You should be able to run the command:

```bash
python3 -m venv <your-venv-name>
```

You can activate your venv by running

```bash
source ~/<your-venv-name>/bin/activate
```

To begin with please make sure you have PyTorch and CUDA correctly installed. 
The following command should return ``True``:

```bash
python -c "import torch; print(torch.cuda.is_available())"
```

If the above command doesn't print ``True``, in the first step, please follow the
instructions [here](https://pytorch.org/) to install PyTorch with CUDA.

We strongly recommend making use of the provided PyTorch examples scripts in [transformers/examples/pytorch/speech-recognition](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/tree/main/examples/pytorch/speech-recognition) to train your speech recognition
system.
In all likelihood, you will adjust one of the example scripts, so we recommend forking and cloning the 🤗 Transformers repository as follows. 

> 1. Fork the [repository](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers) by

Reviewer 2: @sanchit-gandhi @Vaibhavs10 do you really think people will be doing this?

$ cd datasets
$ pip install -e ".[streaming]"
```

If you plan on contributing a specific dataset during 
the community week, please fork the datasets repository and follow the instructions 
[here](https://github.com/huggingface/datasets/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#how-to-create-a-pull-request).

To verify that all libraries are correctly installed, you can run the following command in a Python shell.
It verifies that both `transformers` and `datasets` have been correclty installed.

```python
import torch
from transformers import WhisperFeatureExtractor, WhisperModel
from datasets import load_dataset

model = WhisperModel.from_pretrained("openai/whisper-base")
feature_extractor = WhisperFeatureExtractor.from_pretrained("openai/whisper-base")

ds = load_dataset("hf-internal-testing/librispeech_asr_dummy", "clean", split="validation")

inputs = feature_extractor(ds[0]["audio"]["array"], return_tensors="pt")
input_features = inputs.input_features

decoder_input_ids = torch.tensor([[1, 1]]) * model.config.decoder_start_token_id
last_hidden_state = model(input_features, decoder_input_ids=decoder_input_ids).last_hidden_state
```

## How to finetune a whisper model

> In this section, we show you how to fine-tune a pre-trained [XLS-R Model](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/xls_r) on the [Common Voice 7 dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/mozilla-foundation/common_voice_7_0). 

Reviewer 2: To update to Whisper and CV 11?

> We recommend fine-tuning one of the following pre-trained XLS-R checkpoints:

Reviewer 2: To update

- [300M parameters version](https://huggingface.co/facebook/wav2vec2-xls-r-300m)
- [1B parameters version](https://huggingface.co/facebook/wav2vec2-xls-r-1b)
- [2B parameters version](https://huggingface.co/facebook/wav2vec2-xls-r-2b)

To begin with, please note that to use the Common Voice dataset, you 
have to accept that **your email address** and **username** are shared with the 
mozilla-foundation. To get access to the dataset please click on "*Access repository*" [here](https://huggingface.co/datasets/mozilla-foundation/common_voice_7_0).

Next, we recommended that you get familiar with the XLS-R model and its capabilities.
In collaboration with [Fairseq's Wav2Vec2 team](https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/tree/main/examples/wav2vec), 

> we've written ["Fine-tuning XLS-R for Multi-Lingual ASR with 🤗 Transformers"](https://huggingface.co/blog/fine-tune-xlsr-wav2vec2) which gives an in-detail explanation of how XLS-R functions and how it can be fine-tuned.

Reviewer 2: To update

> The blog can also be opened and directly fine-tuned in a google colab notebook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The blog can also be opened and directly fine-tuned in a Google Colab notebook.
```

In this section, we will explain how to fine-tune the model on a local machine.

1. **Log in**

To begin with, you should check that you are correctly logged in and that you have `git-lfs` installed so that your fine-tuned model can automatically be uploaded.

Run:

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: This might required much earlier before accessing the datasets

huggingface-cli login
```

> to login. It is recommended to login with your access token that can be found under your hugging face profile (icon in the top right corner on [hf.co](http://hf.co/), then Settings -> Access Tokens -> User Access Tokens -> New Token (if haven't generated one already)

Reviewer 2: Update to link hf.co/settings directly

Reviewer 2: Actually this is already explained now when you do `login` so this is redundant

You can then copy-paste this token to log in locally.

2. **Create your model repository**

First, let's make sure that `git-lfs` is correctly installed. To so, simply run:

```bash
git-lfs -v
```

The output should show something like `git-lfs/2.13.2 (GitHub; linux amd64; go 1.15.4)`. If your console states that the `git-lfs` command was not found, please make
sure to install it [here](https://git-lfs.github.com/) or simply via: 

```bash

> sudo apt-get install git-lfs

Reviewer 2: FYI colab now comes with git-lfs
